Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hanselminutes today. I'm talking with
Sarah Squire. She's a senior
technical architect at ping identity,
and you're going to help
me understand what's going on
with identity. How are you?
I'm great. Thanks for having
me on Scott. Yeah, this
is great. I'm finally, someone
will explain to me what
the heck's going on because
I thought we solved identity
on the web. I remember
somewhere around 2005, 2006, there
was this announcement of like,
you know, kind of quasi
announcement identity, 2.0, and we
were going to stop doing,
you know, emails and passwords
and it was all being
solved. So that's been 12
years what's w what was
that entity? 2.0, So identity
2.0 was an OSCON keynote
by Dick Hart, who at
the time worked for a
skip identity, which was his
own startup who now works
on Amazon Alexa. So if
that tells you anything about
the direction that Alexa is
going. So identity 2.0 is
actually part of the onboarding
curriculum. That speech was part
of my onboarding curriculum when
I went into identity about
six years ago. So it
got me really passionate about
the field. It, it explained
to me that there were
a lot of problems to
be solved and that people
are solving them in creative
ways. And one of the
things that I love about
working in identity, and that
really inspires me about the
field is that you can
put in a small amount
of work. This is like
the one part of the
technology stack, where you can
put in a small amount
of work and get a
huge output, both in terms
of security and in terms
of usability. And if you
can make people happier and
more secure at the same
time, that buys you a
lot in terms of value.
Add for technology. I was
thinking about the differences though,
between identity for the technical
person and identity for the
nontechnical person. And I was
just thinking about this yesterday.
I've had the same email
address, and I have owned
my own domain now for
gosh, forever. I don't know,
17, 18, 19 years, but
my nontechnical family members go
through email addresses like, like
crackers. And some of them
I've had four or five,
six emails, the last and,
and the reason that they
abandoned them is that they,
they lose access. They forget
the password, they lose interest,
they change their email because
maybe it wasn't professional and
now they need to be
professional. So their identity doesn't
change in, in the world,
but it changes online a
lot, which makes it really
frustrating for them to move
around the internet. Absolutely account
recovery is a huge issue
in identity, and there's some
really interesting work going on
there. So there are two
initiatives that were both started
by Facebook. One is key
recovery through a third party.
So you can leave a
key to your Facebook account
in your GitHub account, so
that if you can get
into one, you can get
into the other. But it's
very privacy preserving because GitHub
doesn't actually know what that
key is for. It's like
giving, giving a physical key
to a neighbor and saying,
I might need this from
you someday, but I'm not
going to tell you what
the key is for. I'm
not going to tell you
what safe deposit it is
at which bank. Right. So
that's a great, great method
of account recovery, right? So
then like even someone who
stumbled upon the key, like
I've found, we've all found
keys on the sidewalk. Sure,
exactly. Ooh, I like that.
There's always a movie where
someone finds a key and
it has a number on
it and we always assume
it's true. Yeah. Another exciting
thing that's going on in
account recovery is called social
recovery. So a lot of
businesses are looking at, I
can delegate five different trusted
friends. And if three of
them come back to the
service that I'm using and
say, yes, this is Sarah.
I have verified with her
that she lost her key.
Give me a code and
I will give it to
Sarah so that she can
get back into her account.
And if I can, if
I, Sarah can recover three
of those codes, they will
let me back in. That
sounds like initially awesome. But
if someone grouped someone kind
of piled on you like
grouped up, you could have
five, six, mean people all
collectively try to take over
your account and they're all
bad. Yeah. See, now you
have to be nice to
your friends. It's good for
the world. I got an
email literally yesterday saying from
Facebook that someone was trying
to recover my account. And
I wonder for people with
well-known email addresses or with,
you know, internet famous people,
if that could become like
a huge problem, like our
famous people, like Tom cruise,
getting like password resets every
10 minutes. So famous people,
at least for Google, probably
for Facebook as well, have
the opportunity to have an
additional level of security so
they can use a second
factor authentication devices. What we
call it in the industry,
but it's a little a
USB device. It goes on
a key chain. You can
plug it into your USB
port. And it has either
a onetime password or a
private key on it that
can sign a cryptographic challenges
to prove that it's you
so that if you want
to reset your password, it
won't send you an email.
It won't even give you
the opportunity unless you have
that key with you. Interesting
is that what's called a
YubiKey. YubiKey is one provider
of those. Yeah. I ordered
one and it is literally
arriving today. Oh, awesome. Yeah.
I use YubiKey nanos. I
keep them on my earrings
cause they're little in gold.
And then when I go
to conferences, people know that
I'm an identity immediately. If
they know what that is.
So it's a good, a
good networking tool. And then
I also keep one at
home in a safe, because
the problem is if you
lose the one that you're
carrying on your key chain
or in your purse, if
you keep it in your
computer, if the computer gets
stolen, right, you can't recover
that account. You can't recover
that key. So it's important
to register two or even
three keys and keep them
in safe places or with
friends. Interesting. Yeah, that was
my next question. What if
you lose it? Like I'm
planning on putting mine on
my key chain, but at
the same time we were
talking about leaving a key
somewhere at get hub and
no one knows what it
is. I assume that if
someone has a key chain
with a YubiKey on it,
then everyone's gonna be like,
Ooh, that's important. Like the
existence of a YubiKey, even
on your earrings could maybe
have someone run up and
grab them and rip them
out of your ears. Like
they are advertising that they
are what they are. That's
true. So is, it is
the only answer, just have
as many as you as,
as you want, like have
backups. Should I buy another
one? Yes, you should. I
usually have at least two,
especially if you're going to
be carrying one around, if
you only need one, occasionally
then just keep it at
home in a safe. But
if you're going to be
carrying one around, if it
might get stolen or lost,
absolutely. Keep it, keep a
backup somewhere safe. What is
inside these, these keys again,
YubiKey is just one example,
but this is a standard
thing. And is it typing?
Is it like a keyboard?
Is it pretending to be
a keyboard and then typing
in a onetime password? Okay.
That's a great question. It
has a lot of modes.
So one is a private
identity verification mode. That's the
highest security. So that actually
has a cryptographic key that
is stored on the, on
the device itself that can
sign challenges. It can work
through a standard called a
universal second factor or you
to ask that as part
of the Fido Alliance, a
standard suite, and then it
can also just do a
time based one time password.
So basically what that means
is that when you log
in, it will act as
a keyboard for your computer.
So it works exactly. Like
if you have the apps
on your phone where you
pull up a onetime password
and then you enter it
in, it's exactly the same
technology, exactly the same standard,
except that the YubiKey will
create longer, more secure one
time passwords and it will
type them in for you.
So again, we get to
this identity theme of it's
easier and it's more secure.
Exactly. And I use things
like offi that give me
that, and then they kind
of collect all those things.
But then it seems like
as we build abstraction layers
on top of obstruction layers,
it feels a little bit
like we, we expand the,
where like author has like
15, 20 accounts so that
I'm all managing and then
they give you a single
password. Or I use one
password or last pass, which
puts hundreds of passwords. And
then we give you a
single password to manage it.
So whenever I'm trying to
sell two factor authentication to
family members, as I'm sure
you do at Thanksgiving dinner,
you know, have one happy
holidays, make sure you get
two factor off when you
say I see you've been
listening to that. When you,
when you do things like
one password, they always go
wait a second. But then
that means the bad guy
would only need one password
or my YubiKey or my
offi password. Is, is that
just part of the ongoing
tension of identity? It is.
Absolutely. We have, we have
a problem with passwords in
general. We're trying to get
away from passwords. No, one's
been able to do it
yet though. They're really secure,
really easy, really scalable and
deployable method of authentication. So
we're, we're stuck with passwords
for, and we're going to
be for a long time.
There's no good way to
keep track of them. But
I would say yes, I
use a password manager. I
recommend that other people use
password managers and have two
factor authentication on your password
manager itself. Mm. Okay. And
these, these standards though, like
YouTube, you to F and
then other standards that are
kind of underneath it that
are all supported by these
different keys. Like these NFC
security keys, where you hold
the key, tap it up
against your phone, and then
it does something. Are these
all just different transport mechanisms
to pass that one time
key in? Yeah, exactly. So
communicating whether you're doing it
over Bluetooth or NFC or
USB, it's all using the
same standards, the same technology
it's working the same way.
That's just a difference in
how it's communicated to the
device. Okay. So whether it's
a QR code or Bluetooth
or whatever, it's just all
transport mechanisms. Yup. Oh, okay.
I understand also though, that
with regards to like NFC,
that there was concerns that
maybe the iPhone doesn't have
the things that it needs
to support it, you know,
support things like YubiKeys correctly.
I wonder how much support
we're getting from different phone
manufacturers from Apple, from Samsung,
et cetera, to support these
kinds of things versus their
proprietary things like face ID
and touch ID. Sure. Face
ID and touch ID are
certainly a valid method of
authentication. And if you are
a developer, who's looking for
a quick and easy way
to do two factor authentication.
Those APIs are open. They're
very easy. It's just a
couple of lines of code.
And you can add them
into your application and require
a touch ID or a
face ID either in lieu
of, or in addition to
a password. So I highly
recommend that. But as far
as NFC support, that's always
going to be a struggle
rate. Even if Apple were
to open it up, they
could pull it out at
any time. And so as
a developer, it's very hard
to be reliant on a
closed system, a proprietary system
like that because you just
don't have control over. What's
going to happen in the
future. Are they on our
side? Are they on the
side of the consumer or
are they on the side
of standards? They do not
normally come to standards, agency
meetings. They do not come
to the IATF or the
open ID foundation. I can
tell you that much. IATF
sorry, is the internet engineering
task force. They do the
OAuth standard, which is a
very common method of delegated
delegated, usually authentication, but technically
authorization. Do these, these, these
identity organizations, these standard organizations,
like the ones that you
just described, are they able
to really move the needle
on the internet itself? Or
like, do you ever find
yourself coming up with a
standard in a committee? And
then the standard never goes
anywhere just because whatever business
factors, the internet didn't go
for it or whatever, like,
are there standards that were
amazing, that would have solved
all our problems, but they
just never happened. I struggle
with that question a lot.
It's a great question. Oh,
loss. Oh, the 2.0 and
open ID connect are certainly
standards that ha that the
internet has picked up and
taken for their own. If
we probably you and I
use often open ID connect
every day. If you use
login with Facebook login with
Google, anytime you do that,
you're using open ID connect.
So that has certainly had
a lot of uptake there
also a lot of great
ideas and identity that have
not gotten uptake. And I
think it's because we're a
very insular community. We're a
very jargony community. And I
would really like to fix
that. I'm doing a talk
at RSA this year called
identity in 1,000 words. And
the idea is borrowed from
Randleman robe, XKCD, you know,
him, the web comic, of
course. So he wrote a
book called thing explainer, where
he explains complicated objects like
the Saturn five rocket using
only the thousand most common
words in the English language.
So I decided that we
need that for identity. We
need to explain what authorization
is, what authentication is in
really basic, easy to understand
terms. So that's the talk
that I'm going to be
getting, that'll be on RSA
TV on April 17th. Is that
challenging though, because I've, I've
seen you write about this
identity in 1,000 words before.
And I feel like if
I were trying to explain
this to nontechnical family member,
I might lose them at
assertion and credentialing and system
of record, even though those
are English words that are
simple, they sure sound complicated.
Right. And that's the problem
is that they do sound
complicated, but an assertion is
something that we've for as
long as we've been humans,
right. I assert that there
are cookies in the cookie
jar and that may or
may not be true. And
you can check that assertion
by opening up the cookie
jar and saying, are there
cookies in it? Right? Mm,
okay. So they might, they
might be initially challenging, but
they are still basic words
that have concepts that everyone
understands, Right. Identity is not
a hard field to learn.
It's not a hard field
to explain, but it's very
difficult to pick up if
we're only using the industry
specific jargon that all of
us know that we can't
communicate to everyday people, everyday
developers. Right. I feel like
sometimes I lose people at
auth and auth All the
time, even industry professionals get,
get lost with the difference
between authentication and authorization. Yeah.
Yeah. I remember 12 years
ago, 10 years ago when
open ID was happening, I,
I rushed to add Metta
keys to my, my blog.
And then I started logging
into stack overflow, which was
the first kind of major
website that would let me
log in by putting in
my, my, my website. And
then the browser did this
dance where it would bounce
over there and then look
at my Medikidz and then
there'd be, you know, a
combination of client side and
server side handshakes, for lack
of a better word. But
now when I go to
things like stack overflow, I
see Google, I see Facebook.
I see LinkedIn. I see,
I see basically everything except
open ID and using stack
overflow. As an example, they've
now buried open ID, deep
into other options did open
ID, ties it over. Is
it just on, is it
just done? Open ID originally
did not get a lot
of uptake because most people
don't run their own websites.
They don't have their own
domains. And then open ID
connect came along and made
it very easy for people
to use  for things
like Google and Facebook and
LinkedIn, like you mentioned, and
have it be standard and
interoperable and secure. So open
ID connect to definitely one
out over the longterm in
terms of adoption. We're still
trying to get it though
in places like banking. So
there's an initiative in the
EU toward open banking. If
you use a financial aggregator
like mint.com or personal capital.com,
you actually enter all of
your own bank credentials. You
give them your password And
they scrape, they go off
and then they log in
for you Screen scrape. Yes.
And in order to screen
scrape, they have to store
your password in clear text,
or at least encoded in
a way that they can
decode it. Right? So it's
not a, it's not assaulted
hash password that they're storing.
So this is a huge
problem. We, and we're trying
to use OAuth and open
ID connect basically to force
banks, to have an API,
have a protected API so
that I can say I'm
going to delegate access to
my bank account to mint.com
so they can access this
API on my behalf. This
is like, when you log
into something in Facebook or
in Twitter, and it says,
we're going to need to
be able to log in
when you're not around to
do stuff. Is that okay?
It's an extra bit of,
of requirements that they request
on your behalf, but they
don't have your password. Exactly.
So then you get that
proactive consent screen that says
this application will have access
to your name, your address,
your account balances, your activity.
Do you agree, do you
consent to give this organization
access? But now if you
could maybe talk a little
bit more about open ID
versus open ID connect, because
I understand that they're both
for authentication and open ID
connect, even though it has
the same name, it's really
OAuth underneath, which is an
authorization protocol, Right? So when
OA first came out, it
was revolutionary. But in order
to make it be interoperable
between companies, you had to
agree on, well, what do
you call a name? Well,
I call it name, you
call it surname. What do
you call an email? I
call it address you call
it email, right? So you
had to figure out what
everyone was calling different attributes.
So open ID connect came
along and added not only
the authentication piece to OAuth,
but also a basic profile
piece to just say, here
are the attributes that almost
everyone needs the pieces of
information about the user that
we all need. Let's just
standardize what we're going to
call these. And that's really
what made adoption of open
ID connect, blow up. And
if I log in then
to stack overflow and I
see Google or Facebook, will
I ever again be able
to have my own, you
know, I don't know, security
server to have to run
it myself, or should I
just feel okay about these,
these walled gardens and these
giant companies managing my identity?
Cause they're the best practice.
So you mentioned standards that
don't get wide adoption, but
that are being created. One
of those standards in the
internet engineering task force is
a, what we call dynamic
registration and the auth working
group. So dynamic registration is
the concept that you have
a signed statement that lives
somewhere on your website that
says, here's my here's all
of my aunts and points.
Here's my public key. Here's
my name, here's my domain.
Here's all the domains that
I use. And then anyone
can come to your application
and either use it to
log in or log into
it. Hmm. I'm trying to,
So that there's no preregistration
required. So instead of having
a login with Google login,
with Facebook login, with LinkedIn,
you can say, log in
with your domain and you
can type in Hansel minutes.com.
And it says, okay, let
me look up where your
software statement is. And then
I can register you without
any humans having to do
anything as an auth service
provider. And then you can
log in with your domain.
So that seems to bring
us back to the beginning
in 2006, when I would
go and, and, and say
my open ID, like if
you look in the meta-tags
of my blog, I still
have these things. I'm actually
I'll do it right now.
View page source. And there
it is. There's like, meta-tags
open ID says go over
here. And then I think
I had one of the,
the open ID providers at
the time do that. Or
are we just returning to
that idea? Yes. It's a
different way of doing that
same thing. There's also some
really interesting work going on
in the blockchain space. So
is called Evernham and a
nonprofit called sovereign are working
on creating a public directory
of people, of identifiers for
people or organizations or businesses,
and then an associated public
key and identity document. So
that's some really interesting work
that's going on that could
also enable that sort of
decentralized open way of authentication
through whatever mechanism you choose.
So then there would be
a publicly available ledger that
was like a publicly available
immutable, yellow pages or white
pages out there for people
to look up other people.
Yes, exactly interesting. But the,
I don't know whoever Nim
is, but it sounds like
as with all things, if
I went to their website,
it would probably say products.
And how do we balance
trying to build companies around
these things versus trying to
build a standards that will
live beyond evernham.com going out
of business? So the sovereign
foundation is part of this
strategy. So Evernham would be
one identity provider in the
broader sovereign ecosystems. And the
idea is to have an
ecosystem that anyone can join.
Anyone can create a node.
It is a permission to
ledger. So you can kick
people off if they're acting
maliciously, if they are attacking
other people. But the idea
is that anyone should be
able to join. Anyone should
be able to, to have
a node, to act as
an identity provider and that
it should be open and
distributed, not reliant on any
one company or person. I
do not want to be
reliant on anyone as much
as I like logging the
account. I don't want to
be reliant on anyone. So
let's get to practical. What
can we do when we're
done with this podcast type
stuff, there's author and there's
last pass and there's one
password and there's coming standards
and there's YubiKeys right now.
I go to Thanksgiving dinner
and I tell everyone to
think about using something like
coffee and turning on two
factor auth at least on
Gmail and Facebook. And if
they can on their bank,
but you be keys. And
I use YubiKey in the
generic term, Kleenex, not trying
to sell their stuff, but
it still feels a little
techie. Like, I'm not sure
how I could sell my
dad AUB key, or should
do you think I should.
I think you should. I
think that it's getting really
easy to crack passwords. And
part of that is due
to bad password policies, which
we should also talk about,
but YubiKey, it's not a
hard concept, right? You can
keep it on a key
chain. You plug it into
a USB drive. When the
computer tells you to, it
is something that everyday people
can do to increase their
security. And even if they
are not people who would
be specifically targeted, even if
they're not celebrities, even if
they don't have a lot
of assets to steal, there
are people doing broad attacks
of just swaths, swaths of
people at different services and
hoping that they come up
with something useful and, and
having your identity stolen as
everyone knows, is just a
huge amount of work to
recover from. So if, if
buying a YubiKey and tapping
it every time you log
in is a solution to
that, that's, it's like flossing
your teeth, right? It's a
pain, but, but you do
it to avoid the worst
pain down the road, Right?
The way I got my
kids to floss their teeth
was, I said, if you're
not flossing, you might as
well just not even bother
brushing. Like it's not even
worth it. So to apply
that to a, you know,
if you're not using two
factor auth, you might as
well just make your password
password because ultimately you will
be owned. You're not wrong.
So do you recommend passphrases
or do you recommend password
managers to, to nontechnical parents?
I recommend password managers, for
sure. I think they're a
way better. Passphrases are also
good. So passphrases are where
you have a, a sentence
or a line or a
series of regular English words
that you can easily memorize
and type in. So what
that makes for is a
really long password. That's very
easy to remember, which is
exactly what we want in
terms of entropy. I'm looking
using, again, just you as
an example, I'm sure you
can suggest some other ones.
If I go up there
and I click store, I'm
technical, I have a podcast
about technical stuff, and I'm
looking at eight different YubiKeys.
I don't know which one
depends. You know what I'm
saying? It's like, well, this
one's cheap and this one
stays in the port, but
then Sarah said, don't keep
it in the port, put
it on an earring. This
one's tiny. I have no
idea how anyone would expect
this to become a, a,
a, a widespread, everyone has
one consumer thing. If, if
they don't solve that problem,
You know, there are 20
different kinds of floss. They
all work. That's true. It's
true. I do think it's
a problem that you be
key that you be COVID,
which is the name of
the company that produces you.
The keys is the primary
provider. Currently. They are the
only one who, who is
really doing this at scale.
So if, you know, if
we start to rely on
them and something happens, if
they decide to go proprietary,
if part of their supply
chain gets wonky, right. And
they can't produce as fast
as they could before, we're
all in trouble. Interesting. So
let me ask you this
though. If they, if that
happens theoretically, or if we've
started looking at whoever's, you
know, if I say, I
want one of these keys
from anyone who is not
YubiKey, am I going to
be looking at dodgy, overseas
tech companies that I've never
heard of? And might they
be compromised? Yes, absolutely. You
might be looking at dodgy
companies. They might be compromised.
There is a standards organization
called the Fido Alliance that
certifies companies, so that, you
know, whether they're authentication devices
are actually compliant with, with
the standard, with the security
standard or not. So if
you see you two F
the letter, you, the number
two, the letter F U
two F certified on a
device, that means that it
is compliant with the security
standard, and you can trust
it. I see. So just
like I can buy a,
a power adapter and it
says UL certified and people
have over the years learned
about that. We'll start learning
that Fido certified means something.
Okay. Right before we started
recording, as you recall, we
were, we were talking about
what we're going to talk
about on this show. I
got a phone call and
it said unknown caller, but
it said San Diego. And
I don't, I don't know
anyone from San Diego. So
you were very kind and
you said, okay. I took
a moment. I took the
call and it was someone
saying that they wanted to
give me money. It was
my health care provider that
said that we've cut a
check for you. And without
realizing that I was also
on the phone with a
identity expert yourself, I said,
how do I know that
you are, who you say
you are? And they said
that they were going to
email me. Did I do
the right thing? Yeah, absolutely.
Phone fishing is very common.
Unfortunately, a lot of companies
still use what we call
knowledge based authentication, which is
secret questions or questions over
the phone about your account,
about personal information, about places
you might've lived. A lot
of authentication, including credit applications
is still done in that
manner. I was part of
the team that rewrote the
NIST digital identity guidelines. And
we actually outlawed that for
federal agencies. So at least
as far as the American
government is concerned, they are
not allowed to use knowledge
based authentication, but banks still
do it. People who can
open up lines of credit,
people who can issue mortgages,
they still use knowledge based
authentication. So giving out personal
information about yourself is still
dangerous. It's good to love
to get to a place
where that's not true because
personal information is very easy
to find on the internet,
but we're not there yet.
They have not yet emailed
me, which creeps me out.
Well, maybe it wasn't a
sacker. I see. And this
is the other thing, you
know, when you get a
mortgage in the U S
they'll say, okay, we're going
to do some authentication of
the phone. And then they
started asking you questions about
like 30 years ago, you
used to live on what
street and then, you know,
how do you know this?
This is not okay. This
is not a way of
proving. It's me. You know,
more about me than I
do. Yeah. Yeah. And it's
even worse when you don't
know, like when you get
these security questions, like we
know what's your favorite food.
I'm like, I don't know
what my favorite food is
at the time I took
this test before. Yeah. So
I was working with the
university of Washington when they
replaced their knowledge based authentication
system. And they had data
going back 10 years showing
that 60% of users get
their secret questions wrong on
the first try. So it's
not just bad security. It's
really bad usability. We do
not even know ourselves. Well,
thank you so much, Sarah
Squire for talking to me
about identity day. It was
wonderful talking to you, Scott.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.